In this video we're going to go ahead
and download and install the Java
development kit also known as the JDK
we're going to install it on Linux
specifically we're going to install it
on ubuntu 16.04, so if you're running a
different version of Linux you should be
able to follow along and do something
similar for your distro and also keep in
mind if you're running on a Windows
machine or a Mac computer we've actually
got separate videos for your operating
systems because the process is slightly
different but if you run the Linux machine
follow along because you at the right
place. Alright so the first thing we want
to do is open up a command window so I'm
just going to open a terminal, let me
secure in to bring that in and just
enlarge it a little bit and what we'll
do first is we'll the sudo space apt -
get space update just want update the
package index type in your password give
that a moment to complete, you can see
that was pretty quick so next thing
we're going to do now is type sudo space
add - apt - repository space PPA : web
upd 8team forward slash java give
that a moment to complete press enter
once that's finished we do a sudo space
apt - get space update
once that's finished, we're going to do
sudo space apt - get space install space
Oracle space Java 8
- installer and I'll go to press yes
there select yes and press enter or
select why I should say type it anyway
then we're going to go through this
little configuration guide, so I'm going
to press enter and do we accept the
Oracle binary code license terms yes to
that I'm going to press enter and you
can see that's they're going away
downloading the JDK, so give that a
moment to complete I'm just going to
fast forward this video to the end of
the download.
Okay the downloads complete you can see
it's just finishing the configuration
and that's now complete and what we'll
do now is we'll type in sudo space update
- alternatives, two minus signs, two dashes in
other words config space Java and you
can see that there's an option there we
could select either of those but the
correct option is showing for me you can
see that it shows Java 8 Oracle so
depending on your installation of Linux
you might have other versions of the
Java perhaps open JDK or a different
version of Java, so you could select the
relevant option but in this case the
default option is correct and we're good
to go so I'm just going to press enter
there to not do anything and the last
thing to do is just type in Java space -v
try -- version, lucky
Java space - version that's what I
was trying to do the first time and that
now confirms that we've successfully
installed Java and you can see that it
shows that we're running in this
particular case build 25.144 or
you can see on the previous line up here
build one point 8.0 underscore 144 so
this number here may be different for
you, 144 indicates the build release of
in this case Jade the Java development
kit version 8 but the point is that we
good to go.
So that's now downloaded and installed
correctly and what we can do we've
checked that java is on there we can type
in Java C which is the Java compiler
just to confirm that that actually
worked and that's part of the Java
development kit and you can see that
that's come up as well and if we wanted
to we could do the same thing with the
version Java C one point eight point
zero underscore one four four so in
in other words, we've got our Java
development kit installed and we can
proceed now and move on to the next video.